README.md, before:

# Sparkling Water

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/h2oai/sparkling-water](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/h2oai/sparkling-water?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![][travis img]][travis]
[![][maven img]][maven]
[![][license img]][license]

[travis]:https://travis-ci.org/h2oai/sparkling-water
[travis img]:https://travis-ci.org/h2oai/sparkling-water.svg?branch=master

[maven]:http://search.maven.org/#search|gav|1|g:"ai.h2o"%20AND%20a:"sparkling-water-core_2.10"
[maven img]:https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/ai.h2o/sparkling-water-core_2.10/badge.svg

[license]:LICENSE
[license img]:https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202-blue.svg


Sparkling Water integrates H<sub>2</sub>O's fast scalable machine learning engine with Spark. It provides: 
 - Utilities to publish Spark data structures (RDDs, DataFrames) as H2O's frames and vice versa. 
 - DSL to use Spark data structures as input for H2O's algorithms
 - Basic building blocks to create ML applications utilizing Spark and H2O APIs
 - Python interface enabling use of Sparkling Water directly from pySpark

## Getting Started

### Select right version
The Sparkling Water is developed in multiple parallel branches.
Each branch corresponds to a Spark major release (e.g., branch **rel-1.5** provides implementation of Sparkling Water for Spark **1.5**).

Please, switch to the right branch:
 - For Spark 1.6 use branch [rel-1.6](https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water/tree/rel-1.6)
 - For Spark 1.5 use branch [rel-1.5](https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water/tree/rel-1.5)
 - For Spark 1.4 use branch [rel-1.4](https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water/tree/rel-1.4)
 - For Spark 1.3 use branch [rel-1.3](https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water/tree/rel-1.3)

> Note: The [master](https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water/tree/master) branch includes the latest changes
for the latest Spark version. They are back-ported into older Sparkling Water versions.

<a name="Req"></a>
### Requirements

  * Linux/OS X/Windows
  * Java 7+
  * [Spark 1.3+](https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html)
    * `SPARK_HOME` shell variable must point to your local Spark installation

---
<a name="MakeBuild"></a>
### Build

Download Spark installation and point environment variable `SPARK_HOME` to it.
Then use the provided `gradlew` to build project:

```
./gradlew build
```

> To avoid running tests, use the `-x test -x integTest` option. 

---
<a name="Binary"></a>
### Download Binaries
For each Sparkling Water you can download binaries here:
   * [Sparkling Water - Latest version](http://h2o-release.s3.amazonaws.com/sparkling-water/master/latest.html)
   * [Sparkling Water - Latest 1.6 version](http://h2o-release.s3.amazonaws.com/sparkling-water/rel-1.6/latest.html)
   * [Sparkling Water - Latest 1.5 version](http://h2o-release.s3.amazonaws.com/sparkling-water/rel-1.5/latest.html)
   * [Sparkling Water - Latest 1.4 version](http://h2o-release.s3.amazonaws.com/sparkling-water/rel-1.4/latest.html)
   * [Sparkling Water - Latest 1.3 version](http://h2o-release.s3.amazonaws.com/sparkling-water/rel-1.3/latest.html)

---
### Maven
Each Sparkling Water release is published into Maven central. Right now we publish artifacts only for Scala 2.10.

The artifacts coordinates are:
 - `ai.h2o:sparkling-water-core_2.10:{{version}}` - includes core of Sparkling Water.
 - `ai.h2o:sparkling-water-examples_2.10:{{version}}` - includes example applications.

> Note: The `{{version}}` reference to a release version of Sparkling Water, for example: `ai.h2o:sparkling-water-examples_2.10:1.4.11`

The full list of published packages is available [here](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cg%3A%22ai.h2o%22%20AND%20a%3Asparkling-water*).

---
## Use Sparkling Water

Sparkling Water is distributed as a Spark application library which can be used by any Spark application. 
Furthermore, we provide also zip distribution which bundles the library and shell scripts.

There are several ways of using Sparkling Water:
  - Sparkling Shell
  - Sparkling Water driver
  - Spark Shell and include Sparkling Water library via `--jars` or `--packages` option
  - Spark Submit and include Sparkling Water library via `--jars` or `--packages` option
  - pySpark with pySparkling

---
<a name="SparkShell"></a>
### Run Sparkling shell

The Sparkling shell encapsulates a regular Spark shell and append Sparkling Water library on the classpath via `--jars` option. 
The Sparkling Shell supports creation of an H<sub>2</sub>O cloud and execution of H<sub>2</sub>O algorithms.

1. First, build a package containing Sparkling water:
  ```
  ./gradlew assemble
  ```

2. Configure the location of Spark cluster:
  ```
  export SPARK_HOME="/path/to/spark/installation"
  export MASTER="local-cluster[3,2,2048]"
  ```

  > In this case, `local-cluster[3,2,2048]` points to embedded cluster of 3 worker nodes, each with 2 cores and 2G of memory.

3. Run Sparkling Shell:
  ```
  bin/sparkling-shell
  ```

  > Sparkling Shell accepts common Spark Shell arguments. For example, to increase memory allocated by each executor, use the `spark.executor.memory` parameter: `bin/sparkling-shell --conf "spark.executor.memory=4g"`

4. Initialize H2OContext 
  ```scala
  import org.apache.spark.h2o._
  val hc = H2OContext.getOrCreate(sc)
  ```

  > H2OContext start H2O services on top of Spark cluster and provides primitives for transformations between H2O and Spark datastructures.

---

<a name="RunExample"></a>
### Run examples
The Sparkling Water distribution includes also a set of examples. You can find there implementation in [example folder](example/). 
You can run them in the following way:

1. Build a package that can be submitted to Spark cluster:
  ```
  ./gradlew assemble
  ```

2. Set the configuration of the demo Spark cluster (for example, `local-cluster[3,2,1024]`)
  ```
  export SPARK_HOME="/path/to/spark/installation"
  export MASTER="local-cluster[3,2,1024]"
  ```
  > In this example, the description `local-cluster[3,2,1024]` causes creation of a local cluster consisting of 3 workers.

3. And run the example:
  ```
  bin/run-example.sh
  ```

For more details about examples, please see the [README.md](examples/README.md) file in the [examples directory](examples/).

<a name="MoreExamples"></a>
#### Additional Examples
You can find more examples in the [examples folder](examples/).

---
<a name="PySparkling"></a>
### Run PySparkling
Sparkling Water can be also used directly from pySpark.

1. First, build a package:
  ```
  ./gradlew build -x check
  ```

2. Configure the location of Spark distribution and cluster:
  ```
  export SPARK_HOME="/path/to/spark/installation"
  export MASTER="local-cluster[3,2,1024]"
  ```

3. And run pySparkling shell:
  ```
  bin/pysparkling
  ```

  > The `pysparkling` shell accepts common `pyspark` arguments. 

4. Initialize H2OContext 
  ```python
  import pysparkling
  hc = H2OContext(sc).start()
  ```

> To run `pysparkling` on top of Spark cluster, H2O Python package is required. You can install it via `pip` or point to it via `PYTHONPATH` shell variable: `export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$H2O_HOME/h2o-py`

> To use Python notebook with `pysparkling` you need to specify `IPYTHON_OPTS` shell variable: `IPYTHON_OPTS="notebook" bin/pysparkling`

> To use iPython with `pysparkling` you need to specify `PYSPARK_PYTHON` shell variable: `PYSPARK_PYTHON="ipython" bin/pysparkling`

---
<a name="Packages"></a>
### Use Sparkling Water via Spark Packages
Sparkling Water is also published as a Spark package. 
You can use it directly from your Spark distribution.

For example, if you have Spark version 1.4 and would like to use Sparkling Water version 1.4.11 and launch example `CraigslistJobTitlesStreamingApp`, then you can use the following command:

```bash
$SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-submit --packages ai.h2o:sparkling-water-core_2.10:1.4.11,ai.h2o:sparkling-water-examples_2.10:1.4.11 --class org.apache.spark.examples.h2o.CraigslistJobTitlesStreamingApp /dev/null
```
The Spark option `--packages` points to published Sparkling Water packages in Maven repository.


The similar command works for `spark-shell`:
```bash
$SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-shell --packages ai.h2o:sparkling-water-core_2.10:1.4.11,ai.h2o:sparkling-water-examples_2.10:1.4.11 
```


The same command works for Python programs:
```bash
$SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-submit --packages ai.h2o:sparkling-water-core_2.10:1.4.11,ai.h2o:sparkling-water-examples_2.10:1.4.11 example.py
```

> Note: When you are using Spark packages you do not need to download Sparkling Water distribution! Spark installation is sufficient!

---  

<a name="Docker"></a>
### Docker Support

See [docker/README.md](docker/README.md) to learn about Docker support.

---

## Develop with Sparkling Water

### Setup Sparkling Water in IntelliJ IDEA

*  In IDEA, install the Scala plugin for IDEA
*  In a Terminal:

```
git clone https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water.git
cd sparkling-water
./gradlew idea
open sparkling-water.ipr
```

*  In IDEA, open the file sparkling-water/core/src/main/scala/water/SparklingWaterDriver.scala
*  [ Wait for IDEA indexing to complete so the Run and Debug choices are available ]
*  In IDEA, _Run_ or _Debug_ SparklingWaterDriver (via right-click)

### Develop applications with Sparkling Water

An application using Sparkling Water is regular Spark application which bundling Sparkling Water library.
See Sparkling Water Droplet providing an example application [here](https://github.com/h2oai/h2o-droplets/tree/master/sparkling-water-droplet).


---
<a name="Contrib"></a>
## Contributing

Look at our [list of JIRA tasks](https://0xdata.atlassian.net/issues/?filter=13600) for new contributors or send your idea to [support@h2o.ai](mailto:support@h2o.ai).

---
<a name="Issues"></a>
## Issues 
To report issues, please use our JIRA page at [http://jira.h2o.ai/](https://0xdata.atlassian.net/projects/SW/issues).

---
<a name="MailList"></a>
## Mailing list

Follow our [H2O Stream](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/h2ostream).

---

<a name="FAQ"></a>
## FAQ

* Where do I find the Spark logs?
  
 > **Standalone mode**: Spark executor logs are located in the directory `$SPARK_HOME/work/app-<AppName>` (where `<AppName>` is the name of your application). The location contains also stdout/stderr from H2O.
 
 > **YARN mode**: The executors logs are available via `yarn logs -applicationId <appId>` command. Driver logs are by default printed to console, however, H2O also writes logs into `current_dir/h2ologs`.
 
 > The location of H2O driver logs can be controlled via Spark property `spark.ext.h2o.client.log.dir` (pass via `--conf`) option.
 
* Spark is very slow during initialization or H2O does not form a cluster. What should I do?
  
 > Configure the Spark variable `SPARK_LOCAL_IP`. For example: 
  ```
  export SPARK_LOCAL_IP='127.0.0.1'
  ```  

* How do I increase the amount of memory assigned to the Spark executors in Sparkling Shell?
 
 > Sparkling Shell accepts common Spark Shell arguments. For example, to increase
 > the amount of memory allocated by each executor, use the `spark.executor.memory`
 > parameter: `bin/sparkling-shell --conf "spark.executor.memory=4g"`

* How do I change the base port H2O uses to find available ports?
  
  > The H2O accepts `spark.ext.h2o.port.base` parameter via Spark configuration properties: `bin/sparkling-shell --conf "spark.ext.h2o.port.base=13431"`. For a complete list of configuration options, refer to [Devel Documentation](https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water/blob/master/DEVEL.md#sparkling-water-configuration-properties).

* How do I use Sparkling Shell to launch a Scala `test.script` that I created?

 > Sparkling Shell accepts common Spark Shell arguments. To pass your script, please use `-i` option of Spark Shell:
 > `bin/sparkling-shell -i test.script`

* How do I increase PermGen size for Spark driver?

 > Specify `--conf spark.driver.extraJavaOptions="-XX:MaxPermSize=384m"`
 
* How do I add Apache Spark classes to Python path?
 
 > Configure the Python path variable `PYTHONPATH`:
  ```
  export PYTHONPATH=$SPARK_HOME/python:$SPARK_HOME/python/build:$PYTHONPATH
  export PYTHONPATH=$SPARK_HOME/python/lib/py4j-0.8.2.1-src.zip:$PYTHONPATH
  ```

* Trying to import a class from the `hex` package in Sparkling Shell but getting weird error:
  ```
  error: missing arguments for method hex in object functions;
  follow this method with '_' if you want to treat it as a partially applied
  ```

  > In this case you are probably using Spark 1.5 which is importing SQL functions
    into Spark Shell environment. Please use the following syntax to import a class 	from the `hex` package:
    ```
    import _root_.hex.tree.gbm.GBM
    ```

Commit message:

[SW-80][SW-104][PySparkling] Add Sparkling Water Assembly JAR into pySparkling Egg file.
This improvement also fixes problem with pySparkling overriding extraClassPath configuration

README.md, after:

# Sparkling Water

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/h2oai/sparkling-water](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/h2oai/sparkling-water?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![][travis img]][travis]
[![][maven img]][maven]
[![][license img]][license]

[travis]:https://travis-ci.org/h2oai/sparkling-water
[travis img]:https://travis-ci.org/h2oai/sparkling-water.svg?branch=master

[maven]:http://search.maven.org/#search|gav|1|g:"ai.h2o"%20AND%20a:"sparkling-water-core_2.10"
[maven img]:https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/ai.h2o/sparkling-water-core_2.10/badge.svg

[license]:LICENSE
[license img]:https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202-blue.svg


Sparkling Water integrates H<sub>2</sub>O's fast scalable machine learning engine with Spark. It provides: 
 - Utilities to publish Spark data structures (RDDs, DataFrames) as H2O's frames and vice versa. 
 - DSL to use Spark data structures as input for H2O's algorithms
 - Basic building blocks to create ML applications utilizing Spark and H2O APIs
 - Python interface enabling use of Sparkling Water directly from pySpark

## Getting Started

### Select right version
The Sparkling Water is developed in multiple parallel branches.
Each branch corresponds to a Spark major release (e.g., branch **rel-1.5** provides implementation of Sparkling Water for Spark **1.5**).

Please, switch to the right branch:
 - For Spark 1.6 use branch [rel-1.6](https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water/tree/rel-1.6)
 - For Spark 1.5 use branch [rel-1.5](https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water/tree/rel-1.5)
 - For Spark 1.4 use branch [rel-1.4](https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water/tree/rel-1.4)
 - For Spark 1.3 use branch [rel-1.3](https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water/tree/rel-1.3)

> Note: The [master](https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water/tree/master) branch includes the latest changes
for the latest Spark version. They are back-ported into older Sparkling Water versions.

<a name="Req"></a>
### Requirements

  * Linux/OS X/Windows
  * Java 7+
  * [Spark 1.3+](https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html)
    * `SPARK_HOME` shell variable must point to your local Spark installation

---
<a name="MakeBuild"></a>
### Build

Download Spark installation and point environment variable `SPARK_HOME` to it.
Then use the provided `gradlew` to build project:

In order to build the whole project, one of the following properties needs to be set: 
`H2O_HOME`, which should point to location of local h2o project directory, or `H2O_PYTHON_WHEEL`, which should point to H2O Python Wheel.

If you are not sure which property to set, just run
```
./gradlew build
```
and the commands which sets the `H2O_PYTHON_WHEEL` will be shown on your console and can be copy-pasted into your terminal. After setting the property, the build needs to be rerun.

> To avoid running tests, use the `-x test -x integTest` option. 

---
<a name="Binary"></a>
### Download Binaries
For each Sparkling Water you can download binaries here:
   * [Sparkling Water - Latest version](http://h2o-release.s3.amazonaws.com/sparkling-water/master/latest.html)
   * [Sparkling Water - Latest 1.6 version](http://h2o-release.s3.amazonaws.com/sparkling-water/rel-1.6/latest.html)
   * [Sparkling Water - Latest 1.5 version](http://h2o-release.s3.amazonaws.com/sparkling-water/rel-1.5/latest.html)
   * [Sparkling Water - Latest 1.4 version](http://h2o-release.s3.amazonaws.com/sparkling-water/rel-1.4/latest.html)
   * [Sparkling Water - Latest 1.3 version](http://h2o-release.s3.amazonaws.com/sparkling-water/rel-1.3/latest.html)

---
### Maven
Each Sparkling Water release is published into Maven central. Right now we publish artifacts only for Scala 2.10.

The artifacts coordinates are:
 - `ai.h2o:sparkling-water-core_2.10:{{version}}` - includes core of Sparkling Water.
 - `ai.h2o:sparkling-water-examples_2.10:{{version}}` - includes example applications.

> Note: The `{{version}}` reference to a release version of Sparkling Water, for example: `ai.h2o:sparkling-water-examples_2.10:1.4.11`

The full list of published packages is available [here](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cg%3A%22ai.h2o%22%20AND%20a%3Asparkling-water*).

---
## Use Sparkling Water

Sparkling Water is distributed as a Spark application library which can be used by any Spark application. 
Furthermore, we provide also zip distribution which bundles the library and shell scripts.

There are several ways of using Sparkling Water:
  - Sparkling Shell
  - Sparkling Water driver
  - Spark Shell and include Sparkling Water library via `--jars` or `--packages` option
  - Spark Submit and include Sparkling Water library via `--jars` or `--packages` option
  - pySpark with pySparkling

---
<a name="SparkShell"></a>
### Run Sparkling shell

The Sparkling shell encapsulates a regular Spark shell and append Sparkling Water library on the classpath via `--jars` option. 
The Sparkling Shell supports creation of an H<sub>2</sub>O cloud and execution of H<sub>2</sub>O algorithms.

1. First, build a package containing Sparkling water:
  ```
  ./gradlew assemble
  ```

2. Configure the location of Spark cluster:
  ```
  export SPARK_HOME="/path/to/spark/installation"
  export MASTER="local-cluster[3,2,2048]"
  ```

  > In this case, `local-cluster[3,2,2048]` points to embedded cluster of 3 worker nodes, each with 2 cores and 2G of memory.

3. Run Sparkling Shell:
  ```
  bin/sparkling-shell
  ```

  > Sparkling Shell accepts common Spark Shell arguments. For example, to increase memory allocated by each executor, use the `spark.executor.memory` parameter: `bin/sparkling-shell --conf "spark.executor.memory=4g"`

4. Initialize H2OContext 
  ```scala
  import org.apache.spark.h2o._
  val hc = H2OContext.getOrCreate(sc)
  ```

  > H2OContext start H2O services on top of Spark cluster and provides primitives for transformations between H2O and Spark datastructures.

---

<a name="RunExample"></a>
### Run examples
The Sparkling Water distribution includes also a set of examples. You can find there implementation in [example folder](example/). 
You can run them in the following way:

1. Build a package that can be submitted to Spark cluster:
  ```
  ./gradlew assemble
  ```

2. Set the configuration of the demo Spark cluster (for example, `local-cluster[3,2,1024]`)
  ```
  export SPARK_HOME="/path/to/spark/installation"
  export MASTER="local-cluster[3,2,1024]"
  ```
  > In this example, the description `local-cluster[3,2,1024]` causes creation of a local cluster consisting of 3 workers.

3. And run the example:
  ```
  bin/run-example.sh
  ```

For more details about examples, please see the [README.md](examples/README.md) file in the [examples directory](examples/).

<a name="MoreExamples"></a>
#### Additional Examples
You can find more examples in the [examples folder](examples/).

---
<a name="PySparkling"></a>
### Run PySparkling
Sparkling Water can be also used directly from pySpark.

In order to use PySparkling, please ensure the following python packages are available on the system:  `six`, `future`, `requests` and `tabulate`.
The required packages are installed automatically in case when PySparkling is installed from PyPi (this option will be available soon).

1. First, build a package:
  ```
  ./gradlew build -x check
  ```

2. Configure the location of Spark distribution and cluster:
  ```
  export SPARK_HOME="/path/to/spark/installation"
  export MASTER="local-cluster[3,2,1024]"
  ```

3. And run pySparkling shell:
  ```
  bin/pysparkling
  ```

  > The `pysparkling` shell accepts common `pyspark` arguments. 

4. Initialize H2OContext 
  ```python
  import pysparkling
  hc = H2OContext(sc).start()
  ```

> To run `pysparkling` on top of Spark cluster, H2O Python package is required. You can install it via `pip` or point to it via `PYTHONPATH` shell variable: `export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$H2O_HOME/h2o-py`

> To use Python notebook with `pysparkling` you need to specify `IPYTHON_OPTS` shell variable: `IPYTHON_OPTS="notebook" bin/pysparkling`

> To use iPython with `pysparkling` you need to specify `PYSPARK_PYTHON` shell variable: `PYSPARK_PYTHON="ipython" bin/pysparkling`

### Use PySparkling in Databricks Cloud
To use PySparkling in Databricks cloud please attach PySparkling egg file as a library and attach this library to an existing cluster. After this step you can use PySparkling in a notebook 
attached to the cluster in exactly same way as from pySparkling shell.

---
<a name="Packages"></a>
### Use Sparkling Water via Spark Packages
Sparkling Water is also published as a Spark package. 
You can use it directly from your Spark distribution.

For example, if you have Spark version 1.4 and would like to use Sparkling Water version 1.4.11 and launch example `CraigslistJobTitlesStreamingApp`, then you can use the following command:

```bash
$SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-submit --packages ai.h2o:sparkling-water-core_2.10:1.4.11,ai.h2o:sparkling-water-examples_2.10:1.4.11 --class org.apache.spark.examples.h2o.CraigslistJobTitlesStreamingApp /dev/null
```
The Spark option `--packages` points to published Sparkling Water packages in Maven repository.


The similar command works for `spark-shell`:
```bash
$SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-shell --packages ai.h2o:sparkling-water-core_2.10:1.4.11,ai.h2o:sparkling-water-examples_2.10:1.4.11 
```


The same command works for Python programs:
```bash
$SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-submit --packages ai.h2o:sparkling-water-core_2.10:1.4.11,ai.h2o:sparkling-water-examples_2.10:1.4.11 example.py
```

> Note: When you are using Spark packages you do not need to download Sparkling Water distribution! Spark installation is sufficient!

---  

<a name="Docker"></a>
### Docker Support

See [docker/README.md](docker/README.md) to learn about Docker support.

---

## Develop with Sparkling Water

### Setup Sparkling Water in IntelliJ IDEA

*  In IDEA, install the Scala plugin for IDEA
*  In a Terminal:

```
git clone https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water.git
cd sparkling-water
./gradlew idea
open sparkling-water.ipr
```

*  In IDEA, open the file sparkling-water/core/src/main/scala/water/SparklingWaterDriver.scala
*  [ Wait for IDEA indexing to complete so the Run and Debug choices are available ]
*  In IDEA, _Run_ or _Debug_ SparklingWaterDriver (via right-click)

### Develop applications with Sparkling Water

An application using Sparkling Water is regular Spark application which bundling Sparkling Water library.
See Sparkling Water Droplet providing an example application [here](https://github.com/h2oai/h2o-droplets/tree/master/sparkling-water-droplet).


---
<a name="Contrib"></a>
## Contributing

Look at our [list of JIRA tasks](https://0xdata.atlassian.net/issues/?filter=13600) for new contributors or send your idea to [support@h2o.ai](mailto:support@h2o.ai).

---
<a name="Issues"></a>
## Issues 
To report issues, please use our JIRA page at [http://jira.h2o.ai/](https://0xdata.atlassian.net/projects/SW/issues).

---
<a name="MailList"></a>
## Mailing list

Follow our [H2O Stream](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/h2ostream).

---

<a name="FAQ"></a>
## FAQ

* Where do I find the Spark logs?
  
 > **Standalone mode**: Spark executor logs are located in the directory `$SPARK_HOME/work/app-<AppName>` (where `<AppName>` is the name of your application). The location contains also stdout/stderr from H2O.
 
 > **YARN mode**: The executors logs are available via `yarn logs -applicationId <appId>` command. Driver logs are by default printed to console, however, H2O also writes logs into `current_dir/h2ologs`.
 
 > The location of H2O driver logs can be controlled via Spark property `spark.ext.h2o.client.log.dir` (pass via `--conf`) option.
 
* Spark is very slow during initialization or H2O does not form a cluster. What should I do?
  
 > Configure the Spark variable `SPARK_LOCAL_IP`. For example: 
  ```
  export SPARK_LOCAL_IP='127.0.0.1'
  ```  

* How do I increase the amount of memory assigned to the Spark executors in Sparkling Shell?
 
 > Sparkling Shell accepts common Spark Shell arguments. For example, to increase
 > the amount of memory allocated by each executor, use the `spark.executor.memory`
 > parameter: `bin/sparkling-shell --conf "spark.executor.memory=4g"`

* How do I change the base port H2O uses to find available ports?
  
  > The H2O accepts `spark.ext.h2o.port.base` parameter via Spark configuration properties: `bin/sparkling-shell --conf "spark.ext.h2o.port.base=13431"`. For a complete list of configuration options, refer to [Devel Documentation](https://github.com/h2oai/sparkling-water/blob/master/DEVEL.md#sparkling-water-configuration-properties).

* How do I use Sparkling Shell to launch a Scala `test.script` that I created?

 > Sparkling Shell accepts common Spark Shell arguments. To pass your script, please use `-i` option of Spark Shell:
 > `bin/sparkling-shell -i test.script`

* How do I increase PermGen size for Spark driver?

 > Specify `--conf spark.driver.extraJavaOptions="-XX:MaxPermSize=384m"`
 
* How do I add Apache Spark classes to Python path?
 
 > Configure the Python path variable `PYTHONPATH`:
  ```
  export PYTHONPATH=$SPARK_HOME/python:$SPARK_HOME/python/build:$PYTHONPATH
  export PYTHONPATH=$SPARK_HOME/python/lib/py4j-0.8.2.1-src.zip:$PYTHONPATH
  ```

* Trying to import a class from the `hex` package in Sparkling Shell but getting weird error:
  ```
  error: missing arguments for method hex in object functions;
  follow this method with '_' if you want to treat it as a partially applied
  ```

  > In this case you are probably using Spark 1.5 which is importing SQL functions
    into Spark Shell environment. Please use the following syntax to import a class 	from the `hex` package:
    ```
    import _root_.hex.tree.gbm.GBM
    ```
